We've discussed how to recognize hazards and motor risks.
But how exactly do we reduce risk to acceptable levels?
Engineers use systems engineering to reduce risk in order to
prevent and control accidents. Vehicles are complex.
Think about all of the different mechanical elements, electric elements,
hydraulic components, hardware components and software components that go into a vehicle.
All of these functions have to work together in a variety of driving conditions,
like freeway driving, driving in the desert heat and driving below freezing temperatures.
Now, think about the different players involved in designing and producing a vehicle.
Product engineers, finance managers,
project managers, safety engineers,
testing engineers and car body designers.
Players will impose different constraints on
the design as they figure out what the vehicle needs to do.
For example, a product engineer will want
the lane keeping system to always be on and available for use.
A safety engineer, will find cases where
the lane keeping system needs to shut off or be limited.
Besides safety and availability constraints,
other constraints include costs,
productivity, market demands and limits of current technology.
This is where systems engineering comes into play.
Systems engineering gives you a methodical framework to figure out
what your vehicle needs to do which is also called requirements engineering.
Come up with a design that matches your requirements
and allocate requirements to different parts of your design.
This is called designing a system architecture and allocating requirements to the system.
Test and verify your system to make sure that it really does what it is supposed to do.
Which we will refer to as testing and verification.
And finally, integrate all of the different parts so that everything plays well together.
This is known as system integration.
How will we use system engineering?
Let's say a product engineering team is working on the lane departure warning function.
The warning function vibrates
the steering wheel if the driver crosses the lane by mistake.
You, the safety engineer,
look all the lane wanting functions design,
you quickly realize that if the steering wheel vibrates too hard,
the driver could loose control of the vehicle and crash.
What are you going to do about it?
You will use systems engineering.
First, figure out what the vehicle needs to do.
The vehicle needs to limit the maximum vibration of the steering wheel.
If the vibration exceeds the maximum,
the lane departure warning system should shut off.
This is requirements engineering.
Now, you adjust the design of the lane departure wanting
function so that it includes your new functionality.
We call this, allocating requirements to the system architecture.
The next step, is to test your design to make sure it works properly.
You verify that the system turns off when vibration levels get too intense.
This is the testing and verification phase.
Finally, you integrate your design into the rest of the vehicle.
For instance, you'll make sure that
the lane keeping system plays well with the automatic cruise control system.
This is the system's integration step.
Your job as a functional safety engineer,
is to insert yourself into the design and
testing process as your company develops a vehicle.
You will use systems engineering principles to guide